# javascript-forms-quiz-notes

## Quiz Questions

After completing this exercise, you should be able to discuss or answer the following questions:

- What event is fired when a user places their cursor in a form control?
focus
- What event is fired when a user's cursor leaves a form control?
blur
- What event is fired as a user changes the value of a form control?
change
- What event is fired when a user clicks the `"submit"` button within a `<form>`?
submit
- What does the `event.preventDefault()` method do?
it's to keep the default action from being submitted to the server
- What does submitting a form without `event.preventDefault()` do?
makes the page refresh or redirect
- What property of a form element object contains all of the form's controls.
elements
- What property of a form control object gets and sets its value?
value
- What is one risk of writing a lot of code without checking to see if it works so far?
You won't know where the error started and what got it to happen.
- What is an advantage of having your console open when writing a JavaScript program?
You can check your code live and you'll be able to see when an error message comes up right then and there.

ChatGPT:
The focus event is fired when a user places their cursor in a form control.

The blur event is fired when a user's cursor leaves a form control.

The change event is fired as a user changes the value of a form control.

The submit event is fired when a user clicks the "submit" button within a `<form>`.

The event.preventDefault() method is used to prevent the default action of an event from occurring. For example, calling preventDefault() within a submit event listener will prevent the form from being submitted and the page from reloading.

Submitting a form without event.preventDefault() will cause the form data to be sent to the server, which may result in a page reload or redirect.

The elements property of a form element object contains all of the form's controls.

The value property of a form control object gets and sets its value.

One risk of writing a lot of code without checking to see if it works so far is that errors or bugs can accumulate, making it harder to identify and fix problems later on. This can lead to wasted time and effort, as well as frustration for the programmer.

An advantage of having your console open when writing a JavaScript program is that it allows you to see any errors or log messages that are generated by your code in real-time. This can help you quickly identify and fix problems, as well as provide feedback on the state of your program as it runs.
## Notes

All student notes should be written here.


How to write `Code Examples` in markdown

for JS:

```javascript
const data = "Howdy";
```

for HTML:

```html
<div>
  <p>This is text content</p>
</div>
```

for CSS:

```css
div {
  width: 100%;
}
```
